---
layout: post
title: <i>GSoC,</i> Symbolic planning techniques for recognizing objects domestic <p>#6</p> grasping object
---

**Grasping object** : This post will describe the planning system that implements Robocomp in order to provide to the robot a full functionality. In order for a robot be able to carry out a mission as "take the cup from the table and take it to the kitchen," it needs something that in robotics calls `planner`. In this post we move away the issue of inverse kinematics and we dive into the field of artificial intelligence, making a slight revision of existing planners and delving into the planner using robocomp.

###Planning

As the name suggests, the planning is to generate plans. Plans to be executed by a robot in order to reach a goal. These objectives are often complex and require the execution of a series of steps that must be organized in the best possible manner to achieve the objective with an effort and within a reasonable time.

In order for a planner can build a series of plans, it needs an initial state of the world, a desired end state (or several) and a set of rules. For example, take the objective of frying an egg. We start with an initial world consisting of a kitchen with the necessary elements: an egg with a dozen eggs, a can of oil, a frying pan, a slotted spoon, a plate and a stove. And we have a set of rules, like `to pour oil`, `to water plants`, `to crack egg`, `to stir`, `to serve`, `to light fire` and `to put the fire out`. The duty of the planner is to select and order those rules that allow us to go from the initial state of the world (with raw eggs) to the final state in which a fried egg is served  on a plate. Thus, the planner would eliminate the rule of "to water plants", and would order the rest of rules as follows:

1. `to light fire`: in order to light the stove.
2. `to pour oil`: to pour oil into the pan
3. `to crack egg`: to crack the egg and throw it into the pan
4. `to stir`: to catch the slotted spoon and to go stirring the oil for frying the egg well.
5. `to put the fire out`: when the egg is fried the stove is turned off.
6. `to serve`: to serve the fried egg on the plate


With these steps (very simplified) we get that our robot prepares us a fried egg... Although the example is miserable, we can see that any action we do and that we find it easy to execute, for a robot is quite complicated. That is why planning is a very complex field of artificial intelligence.

###Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL)

This section will introduce the reader slightly in the planning language more used in artificial intelligence: PDDL. It was created in 1998 by Drew McDermott and his team for use in that year's edition of International Planning Competition. The aim of PDDL is to standardize the planning languages for greater reuse of planning domains. Its operation is relatively simple:

1. Take for example, the following domain to create geometric shapes: We presume that in our initial world there is always a vertex node. The rules increase the number of vertices nodes to create geometric identities. For example, the `segment` rule creates from the initial node a line segment, the rule `triangle` creates from the line segment an equilateral triangle, the rule "square" creates from the equilateral triangle a square... and so on until an octagon.
2. In the PDDL file, the rules would be:

    (define (domain AGGL)
    (:predicates
                (firstunknown ?u)
                (unknownorder ?ua ?ub)

                (isA ?n) # IS A NODE?
                (isB ?n)
                (isC ?n)
                (isD ?n)
                
                (union ?u ?v) # TWO NODES ?u AND ?v are united?
        )

        (:functions
                (total-cost)
        )
    ##################   RULES   ##########################
        (:action segment
                :parameters ( ?va ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0 )
                :precondition (and (isA ?va) (firstunknown ?vlist0) (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal) (not(= ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0)) )
                :effect (and (not (firstunknown ?vlist0)) (not (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal)) (firstunknown ?vListAGMInternal) (isB ?vlist0) (union ?va ?vlist0) (increase (total-cost) 1)
                )
        )

        (:action triangle
                :parameters ( ?va ?vb ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0 )
                :precondition (and (isA ?va) (isB ?vb) (firstunknown ?vlist0) (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal) (not(= ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0)) (union ?va ?vb) )
                :effect (and (not (firstunknown ?vlist0)) (not (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal)) (firstunknown ?vListAGMInternal) (isC ?vlist0) (union ?vb ?vlist0) (union ?vlist0 ?va) (increase (total-cost) 1)
                )
        )

        (:action square
                :parameters ( ?va ?vc ?vb ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0 )
                :precondition (and (isA ?va) (isC ?vc) (isB ?vb) (firstunknown ?vlist0) (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal) (not(= ?vListAGMInternal ?vlist0)) (union ?va ?vb) (union ?vb ?vc) (union ?vc ?va) )
                :effect (and (not (firstunknown ?vlist0)) (not (unknownorder ?vlist0 ?vListAGMInternal)) (firstunknown ?vListAGMInternal) (isD ?vlist0) (union ?vc ?vlist0) (union ?vlist0 ?va) (not (union ?vc ?va)) (increase (total-cost) 1)
                )
        )

3. To represent the initial world from which we start and the final world that we want to go, we should implement a file like this: 

    (define (problem myProblemPDDL)

        (:domain AGGL ) # planning domain ---> set of rules
        (:objects
                A_1
                unknown_0
                unknown_1
                unknown_2
                unknown_3
        )

        (:init
                (= (total-cost) 0)
                (firstunknown unknown_0)
                (unknownorder unknown_0 unknown_1)
                (unknownorder unknown_1 unknown_2)
                (unknownorder unknown_2 unknown_3)
                (isA A_1) # ---->  there is a initial vertex node
        )

        (:goal
                (exists ( ?A_1001 ?B_1002 ?C_1003 ?D_1004 ) # -----> we want a final world with a square
                        (and
                                (isA ?A_1001)
                                (isB ?B_1002)
                                (isC ?C_1003)
                                (isD ?D_1004)
                                (unido ?A_1001 ?B_1002)
                                (unido ?B_1002 ?C_1003)
                                (unido ?C_1003 ?D_1004)
                                (unido ?D_1004 ?A_1001)
                        )
                )
        )
        (:metric minimize (total-cost))


)


----------

http://plg.inf.uc3m.es/~mmartin/TFGM/TFM-RVC.pdf